---
title: 1st FRQ Review
author: alex
date: 2023-09-19 15:10:00 -0800
categories: [Blogging, Events]
tags: [Extra Credit, alumni]
render_with_liquid: false
week: 5
type: tangibles
---

# FRQ 2018 Number 4
Find the values in a certain column.
- Create a variable that stores all the values, iterate through each row in the column
- Grab all values and print them
Part B wants to test if array is a latin square
- Created two non-implemented values. Iteratred through arrays_testing and also checked row and column for duplicates
IsLatin method checked for duplicates, then tested for containing all values, then retrun true if all checks pass.

# FRQ 2019 Number 2
Involved methods and classes
- Create a step trakcer class to determine if hte number of steps per day should be counted.
- Create private instance variables for certain attributes
- Create a constructor to set all values to zero

# FRQ 2019 Number 1
Methods and control structures
- Create a calendar and return the values on that date.
- Part A returns a leap year, starts from year one.
- Day of the week of hte first day of the year adds the number of days that has started.
- Modulo dvide to see what the day of the week was.

# FRQ 2019 Number 3
Question on Array lists
- Part A was to create a string array were you sort out the open and closed delimeters.
- For loops runs through the string.
- Part B allows us to create another for loop that numbers ohw many open and closed delimeters there are.

# FRQ 2022 Number 2  
Create a book class, and then a textbook class that extends the book class.
- Super keyword allows us to run the constructor from the parent function and then set new values
- Override funcitons with "@Override", we can call parent function with super again, and then add things on to it.
- Can_substitute takes another textbook and then updates to.
- Aknowledge the super, override, scopes in Java, and Setters and Getters.
- Interfaces are also important to Java.

# FRQ 2022 Number 1
Methods and Control Structures
- Typically write two methods for the clsas
- A simulation of a game. Asking about a score to retrieve score from a level
- Use a lot of conditionals to check for boolean statements, somtimes nest them to have more complex conditionals.
- Play manytimes method, will iterate over as many times as possible. Then we see if a new highscore has been achieved.
- Use testing to test for different methods next time.
- Know how to call methods/Create new classes.

# 2022 FRQ Number 3
- Can lose points for using methods and attributes imporperly (void return type on a constructor)
- Double division. Cast the sum as a double then divide by the number of total reviews.
- Iteration again, grabs each comment and performs conditionals on them

# 2016 FRQ Number 2
- Classes
- Create a guesing game where they guess a word
- Write a complete hiddenboard class
- Include any necessary vaiables, constructors.
- Want to see class initialization and stuff.
- Stringbuilder makes it easier to concatenate strings
- Get the basics done first