---
title: 'CS61A: Lecture 31'
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61A']
date: 2024-11-20 1:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61A', 'SQL']
---

# Databases
- Database management systems (DBMS) contains tables with records, which are rows that have a value for each column.
    - Every table has columns and rows
    - A column has a name and a type
    - A row has a value for each column
- The Structured Query Language (SQL) is perhaps the most widely used programming language used to manage databases.
    - It is a domain-specific language.
    - It is also a declarative programming language.

## Declarative Programming
- In **Declarative programming**: 
    - A program is a description of the desired result
    - The interpreter will fiture out how to generate the result.
- This contrasts to **Imperative Programming** where we have to specify the full instructions about how to get there.
- Because of this, Imerpative programming is a lot more versatile, whereas the declarative language is more domain specific.

# Structured Query Language (SQL)
## Naming Tables
- A **select** statement creates a new table and displays it.
    - We "create" a new version of the table and that table is what we display.
- A **create table** statement names the result of a **select** statement. This actually creates a new table and assigns a name to it.

## Select Statements Project Tables
- A **select** statement can specify an input table using a **from** clause
- A subset of the rows of the input table can be selected using a **where** clause
- An ordering over the remaining rows can be declared using an **order by** clause
- Syntax: `SELECT <column names> FROM <table name> WHERE <condition> ORDER BY <order>;`
    - Column names are seperated by commas
- Syntax: `SELECT <expression> AS <name>, <expression> aAS <name>,...`
- We may also create a table with select statements
    - `CREATE TABLE <track_names> AS SELECT <column names> FROM <table name> WHERE <condition> ORDER BY <order>;`

## DROP
- We may drop (remove) a table.

## Commands
- built-in commands vs SQL statements

