---
title: CS61A Lecture Aug 28
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61A']
date: 2024-06-11 02:00:00 -0800
tags: ['']
---

# The Instructor Team
- <mark>John Denero (he/him)</mark> - denero@berkeley.edu
    - CS 61A Instructor
    - Researches language models and how people use them
    - **Office hours 1-3pm Tuesdays in Warren 101B**
- <mark>Shm Almeda (they/them)</mark> - shm.almeda@berkeley.edu
    - **Office hours 3pm -4pm Monday (location TBD)**
- <mark>Jedi Tsang (he/him)</mark> - Jedidiahtsang@berkeley.edu
    - Researches computing ethics
    - **Office hours 1pm-3pm Thursday (location TBD, Either Evans or Soda)**

# About the Course
## Lecture, Videos, and the Textbook
 - <mark>Videos</mark> are posted to cs61a.org and are essential viewing for **before** coming to lecture. All course content is covered in videos.
    - Around 1/2 hour.
 - The <mark>textbook</mark> is located at *composingprograms.com*. Similar content to videos

 - **Lectures** will review the most important concepts from Mon, Wedn, and Fri.

## Problem-Solving Practice
 - Problem solving is effective to learn how to solve problems
 - **Lab** Monday and Tuesday labs have required attendance unless Mega Section.
 - **Discussion**: On Wed/Thurs/Fri: attendance is required (unless mega)
 - There are weekly **homework** assignments and 4 larger programming projects
 - One-on-one assignments during office hours.
 - Grading is on an absolute scale. Based on how the people did in the previous semester.

## Discussion Sections
 - Mostly lectures that discuss the content taught during lectures.
 - For regular, assigned a group number shared with 6-7 students, a room, and a time. 2-5 groups per room.
 - Most discussions have a TA in the room, rest have a Zoom room with a TA
 - Given a worksheet filled with example problems that are supposed to be solved together with additional instructions.
 - These problems are not graded.

## Asking Questions
 - Post any questions on Ed.
 - Email the professor at denero@berkeley.edu
 - Email staff members at cs61a@berkeley.edu

## What is the Course About
 - Manage computational complexity
 - To master abstraction: Assign something a name and rely it to always perform the desired functions, without knowing how it is being completed.
 - Techniques for organizing complex programs: Change programs without breaking them.
 - Introduction to programming: Fast-paced learning
    - Full understanding for Python fundamentals
    - Large projects to manage complexity
    - Learn how computers interpret programming languages
 - **Languages used:** Python, Scheme, & SQL

# Should you take CS 61A?
## Syallabus
 - Syllabus: cs61a.org/articles/about/
 - No formal programming-related prerequisite.
 - cs61a.org/articles/advice

# Course Policies
 - Syllabus: cs61a.org/articles/about/

## Collaboration
 - Some projects can be completed with a partner
 - Discuss everything with each other, learn from fellow students
 - Academic misconduct
    - Do not look at someone else's code! (Exceptions: lab, your project partner, or after you already solved the problem.)
    - Do not tell other people the answers
    - Do not ask ChatGPT and other tools to write code for you


# Content
## Type of expressions
 - An expression describes a computations and evaluates to a value.
    - CS uses the `call expression` f(x)
    - All expressions can use function call notation
    
```python
1 + 1                                 # Addition
253*8                                 # Multiplication
2 ** 5                                # Exponentiation
1 * 2 ** 3 + 4 * ((5//6) + 7 * 8 * 9) # Pemdas

```
    - Call expressions are just a simple function.
    - The `operator` module contains additional operators for arithmetic expressions.
    - Call expresisons can be nested as well
```python
1 + 2 * 3 + 4 
mul(add(1,2), add(3,4))
```



