---
title: 'CS61A: Objects'
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61A']
date: 2024-10-11 6:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61A', 'objects']
---

# Object-Oriented Programming
- OOP provides a method for organizing large programs
    - large programs can be organized into small, modular components that can be developed at ones.
    - Extends data abstraction, but also combines information and behavior.
    - Objects represent their real-life counterparts (or they can be an abstract idea!)
- This allows our code to not just be a long list of instructions, but rather the combined interactions of many small objects and components.
    - Each object has its own local state, which may change over time.
    - Mutation happens at a local state, not at a global level.
        - Mutations only occur to a certain object, and each object should know how to manage its local state.
    - Interactions with an object occur through the **methods**.
    - Objects are all instances of a common **class**.
        - The class provides a blueprint for constructing the objects.
    - Different classes relate to each other
- Specialized language and vocab:
    - **Class**: Defines how objects of a type behave.
    - **Object**: An instance of a class, with it's type the class.
    - **Method**: A function called on an object using dot expression (`<object>.<method>()`)
        - Functions are typically defined within the global frame, but a method is **specific to a particular object**.
- Ex: Python lists are an example of a class


```python
list
```




    list



- In fact, just calling list by itself is just referencing the **constructor** of the class, creating a new instance of a list.


```python
s = list(range(3))
print("type(s):", type(s),"\nand s:", s)
```

    type(s): <class 'list'> 
    and s: [0, 1, 2]


- All list operations, from methods (append, extend, sort, insert, pop, remove), to arithmetic operations, to item lookup and assignment, are implemented/defined within the list class.

# Classes
- Class describes the behavior of its instances
    - Ex: All bank accounts have a balance and an account holder; the Account class should add those attributes to each newly created instance.
- The class is a blueprint for creating objects/instances of that class.
    - Every class has attributes and methods.
    - Attributes are like variables, they store information.
    - Methods are like functions, they perform operations to the Object.
    - We access attributes and methods using the dot notation.
- Different objects share common behavior and attributes as they are instances of the same class.
    - Every bank account has a balance and acount holder. Additionally, every account can also deposit and withdraw money.
    - Everything within an object is defined locally to that object. We may not access it without specifying the object.


```python
class Account:
    company = "CS61A Bank" # This is a class variable
    def __init__(self, account_holder):
        self.balance = 0 # This is an instance variable
        self.holder = account_holder
    
    def deposit(self, ammount): # This is an instance method
        self.balance = self.balance + ammount
        return self.balance
    
    def withdraw(self, amount):
        if amount > self.balance:
            return "Insufficient funds"
        self.balance = self.balance - amount
        return self.balance
    
    def foo(x): # This is a class method
        return Account.company
    
    def transfer(self, into, amount):
        result = self.withdraw(amount)
        if type(result) == str:
            return result
        else:
            into.deposit(amount)
            return "Transfer Successful"

a = Account("Alex")
a.deposit(50000)

b = Account("Bobby")
b.deposit(10000)

a.transfer(b, 20000)
print(a.balance) # 30000
print(b.balance) # 30000
```

    30000
    30000


- The `__init__()` method is a special method name that functions as a **constructor** for the class
    - It defines the behavior of the class whenever a new object instance is created (what values to store, calculations to make, algorithms to run, etc.)
- The keyword `self` is used to refer to the instance of the class itself. 

# Creating Instances
- Object Construction 
    - A new instances of the class is created, it is a blank slate. This blank slate has no attributes.
    - The `__init__` method of the class is called with the new object as its first argument (named `self`), along with any additional arguments provided in the call expression
        - Think of the `self` argument as being the name of the object that we are calling

# Instance Attributes
- An object's attributes are accessed and mofieid using dot expressions:
```python
>>> a = Account('Alan')
>>> a.balance
0
>>> a.balance = 12
>>> a.balance
12
```
- An attribute may be asigned any value, even if that attribute did not exist before.



```python
a = Account('Alan')
a.balance = 20
b = Account("Bobby")
b.balance = 20
a.backup = b # This is an attribute that is bound to another object! This attribute also did not exist in the class definition
a.backup.balance
```




    20



## Object Identity
- Important as object attributes may change.
    - Identity may help us with identifying if two objects with the same attributes are indeed the same object, or if they are different.
- Every object instance of a class has a unique identity
- We may test if two expressoins evaluate to the same Object by using the Identity operators `is` and `is not`


```python
a = Account('John')
b = Account('Jack')
print("Is a the same as a?", a is a)
print("Is a the same as b?", a is b)
```

    Is a the same as a? True
    Is a the same as b? False


- However, when we bind an object to a new name with assignment, we do not create a new object. There is simply just an additional name that references the same object.


```python
c = a
c is a
```




    True



# Methods
- To invoke methods, we use the dot expression.
    - All invoked methods have access to the object because of the `self` parameter.
    - Because of this, the method is capable of accessing and manipulating the attributes of the object.
- The dot notation automatically supplies the first argument to the method.
- We create unique methods for each class because different types might have different behaviors for each action
    - Ex: The deposit actions of a bank differs than that of the deposit actions of a hedge fund.
