---
title: 'CS61A: Lecture 25'
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61A']
date: 2024-10-25 1:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61A', 'Scheme']
---

# Lecture - The Scheme Programming Language
- 2 Reasons
    - Concepts in Python transfers into another programing language
    - Build an interpreter for Scheme
        - A program that runs other programs
- Scheme as a language
    - There are only expressions in the language.
    - ***Each expression is related to a value.***
    - Expressions are evaluated in an environment (which gives symbols meaning) to produce a value.
        - Local frame: "the course instructor" has a specific meaning for a particular course.
        - Global frame: "multiply" is an operation that everyone knows about.
        - Local before Dlobal: in a particular context, "multiply" can mean something different.
- Scheme programs consist of expressions, which can be:
    - Self-evaluating expressions: 2, 3.3, true
    - Symbols: +, -, quotient, not
    - Call expressions: (quotient 10 2), (f x)
    - Special forms: (if a b c) (let ((x 2)) (= x 1))
- These expressions are either primaitive or combinations.
- True and false values in scheme: `#t` or `#f`

## The minus and division operator (`-`)
- different behaviors based on number of parameters
    - **No parameters:** Errors
    - **One parameter:** Minus would get the negative of the value, division would return 1 over the value.
    - **Many parameters:** Minus would subtract multiple values in a row from the first value, same with division.
- Integer division is `quotient`
- Decimal division is `/`

# Defining Functions/Prodecures
- There are no return keywords in scheme. In scheme, the value of a call expression is the value of the last body.
- Instead of multiple return statements, Scheme uses nested conditional expressions.
    - `if` and `cond` evaluate to values themselves.
- If and cond can also skip evaluating conditions. It will only evaluate a condition if we reach that point.
- In scheme, only false is the false value, everything else is true.
- The Nonetype in scheme is just `undefined`.
- The value of a define expression is the name of the procedure we define
- We may mimic if-elif-else behavior with nested ifs


```python
(if (condition) (return value) (if (condition2) (return value true) (return value false)))
```

# Special forms
- Some Scheme combinations are not call expressions because they are special forms


```python
scm> (define (f x) (print x) False)
scm> (and (f 3) (f 4))
3
#4
```

- Scheme has no for/while statements, so recursion is required to iterate.
    - Ex: summiong first n values


```python
(define (sum-first-n n)
    (define (f k total)
        (if (> k n)
            total
            (f (+ k 1) (+ total k))
        )
    )
    (f 1 0)
)
```

- We may create while and for loops in scheme but that requires another special form, which requires a macro.

# Lambda Expressions
- Lambda expressions evaluate to anonymous procedures
    - `(lambda (arguments) (return value))`

# Cond & Begin
- Cond behaves like an if-elif-else statement



```python
(print
    (cond
        ((> x 10) 'big)
        ((> x 5) 'medium)
        (else 'small)
    )
)
```

- begin allows us to combine multiple expressions into one expression

# Examples
- Write `a-plus-abs-b` that adds a+abs(b)


```python
(define (a-plus-abs-b a b)
    ((if (> 0 b) - +) a b)
)
```
