---
title: Arrays
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61B']
date: 2025-01-31 1:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61B', 'Data Structures', 'Arrays', 'JAVA']
---

# Arrays
- Like classes, arrays are also sequences of memory boxes. However
    - Classes have named memory boxes (mapped variable names to memory).
    - Class boxes can store different types.
    - Arrays have numbered memory boxes (accessible by index). Arrays do not have methods
    - Array boxes must store the same variable type.
- Any array has a fixed length

## Array Creation
- There are three ways to create an array:


```java
x = new int[3];
int[] y = new int[]{1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
int[] z = {9, 10, 11, 12, 13}
```

- First notation creates an array of length 3 and each memory box is filled with default value 0.
- Second notation creates an array with the size needed to store the specified values.
- Third notation declares and creates z, but omits the use of `new`.

## Array Access and Modification
- We can access array elements using index notation like in python.
    - However, Java does not support negative indexing.
- Java also has as a method `System.arraycopy` that copies one section of one array over to a same-length section in another array. Five parameters ar etaken
    - The source array
    - Starting index in the source array
    - The destination array
    - Starting index in the destination array
    - How many items to copy.


```java
int[] x = {1,2,3,4,5};
int[] y = new int[5];
System.arraycopy(x, 2, y, 3, 2);
Arrays.toString(y);
```




    [0, 0, 0, 3, 4]



- We may also use a loop to copy over array elements. However, if we run out of index out of bounds errors, Java only catches them at runtime, and not compilation.

## 2D Java Arrays
- 2D arrays in Java are just arrays of arrays.
- However, each element in the parent array doesn't store the memory boxes of the array, rather, it stores an array reference to the memory location of the child arrays.
