---
title: 'CS61B: Lecture 22'
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61B']
date: 2025-03-14 1:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61B', 'Tree Traversals', 'Graphs', 'JAVA']
---

#  Graphs and Traversals
- Tree Traversals is a means of iterating over the items within a tree.
- There are different orders that we may visit the nodes in.
- Main orderings
    - Level Order: Visit top-to-bottom, left-to-right, think about BFS.
    - Depth First Traversals
        - 3 Types: Preorder, Inorder, Postorder.
        - We traverse the deep nodes before the shallow nodes.

## Preorder DF tree traversals


```java
preOrder (BSTNode x) {
    if (x = null) return ;
    print(x.key);
    preOrder(x.left);
    preOrder(x.right)
}
```

- Get the current parent node, then get the preOrder traversal of the left subtree, followed by the preOrder Traversal of the right subtree.
    - Visually, we go down the left most branch first, and slowly climb back up to go to the right.

## Inorder DF tree Traversal


```java
inOrder (BSTNode x) {
    if (x = null) return ;
    inOrder(x.left);
    print(x.key);
    inOrder(x.right)
}
```

- Intuitively, this gets us the keys of the tree in their smallest to greater order.

## Postorder DF tree Traversal


```java
postOrder (BSTNode x) {
    if (x = null) return ;
    postOrder(x.left);
    postOrder(x.right);
    print(x.key);
}
```

- Intuitively, this accesses from the bottom to the top, left to right.
    - This is useful for building up from the leaves to the root of a tree.
    - We may efficiently calculate filesystem sizes like this.
# Graphs
- A Graph contains a set of nodes and edges but may contain cycles.
- Simple graphs are graphs where no edges connect a vertex to itself, and no two edges connect the same vertices.

## s-t connectivity problem.
- Given a source vertex s and a target vertex t, is there a path between s and t?
- We want to create a connected(s, t)`
- Every time we call `connected(s, t)`
    - We mark s
    - Does s == t? retirn true
    - Otherwise, if `connected(v, t)` for any unmarked neighbor v of s, return true.
    - Return false;

## DepthFirstPaths Demo
- Apply DFS starting from some source vertex.
- We use an array `marked` and `edgeTo`
    - marked represents if we visited that node yet.
    - edgeTo represents the node that we used to travel to the current node using DFS.
- In general, DFS is not unique.

## DFS orders
- DFS Preoder: Action is before DFS calls to neighbors. Order of the recursive calls.
- DFS Postorder: Action is after DFS calls to neighbors. Order of the dfs returns.
