---
title: 'CS61B: Lecture 16'
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61B']
date: 2025-02-26 1:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61B', 'ADT', 'BST', 'JAVA']
---

# Extends
- When we use extends, we inherit all public members of a class into our child class. However, private attributes and methods are not inherited.
- Constructors are not inherited. However, the superclass constructor is called within the child class constructor.
- Super class methods can still be involved using `super`. 


```java
public class VengefulSLList<Item> extends SLList<Item> {
    private List<Item> deletedItems;

    public VengefulSList() {
        // super() is implicitly called.
        deletedItems = new ArrayList<>();
    }

    @Override
    public Item removeLast() {
        Item removedItem = super.removeLast(); // This will call the SList removeLast method
        deletedItems.add(removedItem);
        return removeditem;
    }

    private void printLostItems() {
        System.out.println(deletedItems);
    }
}
```

# Set, Map, and ADT
- An **Abstract Data Type (ADT)** is defined only by operations, not by its implementation.
## TreeSet and TreeMap
- A traditional linked list structure is too slow to check if an element exists within the set.
    - We have to traverse through all the elements of the Linked list to find the element.
    - It is a slow search even if the list was in order.
- To add efficiency, we are going to use a binary search tree to represent a set.
- A tree contains a set of nodes and edges that connect its nodes.
    - There is exactly one path between any two nodes
- A **Rooted Tree** has one node called the root.
    - Every node except for the root has exactly one parent.
    - A node with no child is called a leaf.
- In a rooted binary tree, every node has either 0, 1, or 2 children (subtrees).

## Binary Search Trees
- A Binary Search Tree is a tree that satisfies the BST Property. 
    - For every node X in the tree:
        - Every key in the left subtree is less than X's key.
        - Every key in the right subtree is greater than X's key.
- The ordering in a BST must be complete, transitive, and antisymmetric. Given keys p and q:
    - Exactly one of $p < q$ and $q > p$ are true.
    - $p < q$ and $q < r$ imples $p < r$.

## Searching BST 
- If searchKey equals T.key, we return T.key.
    - If searchkey < T.key, we search T.left
    - If searchkey > T.key, we search T.right
- Bushy BSTs are extrememly fast for searching.


## Inserting BST
- We search for the key
    - If the key is found, no nothing,
    - If the key is not found, we create a new node and set an appropriate link.

## Deleting BST
- Three cases:
- If we delete a node with 0 children, we may just simply remove it.
- If we delete a node with 1 children, we may just set the parent of the child of the removed node to the parent of the removed node.
- If we delete a node with 2 children, we use hibbard deletion.
    - We want a new node to replace the deleted node. This node muts be greater than all nodes in the left subtree, and less than all nodes in the right subtree.
    - We just either pick the greatest node in the left subtree or the least node in the right subtree.
