---
title: 'CS61B: Lecture 19'
author: alex
badges: True
comments: True
categories: ['CS61B']
date: 2025-03-10 1:00:00 -0800
math: True
tags: ['CS61B', 'Hashing', 'JAVA']
---

# Hashing II
- Two implementations for sets and maps
    - RB Tree based approach:
        - Requires items to be ocmparable and has logarithmic time operations.
    - Hash table based approach: HashSet and HashMap.
        - Constant time operations.
- Hash Table:
    - Data is converted into a hash code, the has code is reduced to a valid index.
    - Data is stored in a buckey corresponding to that index.
        - Each bucket is a "separate chain" of items.
    - We resize when load factor N/M exceeds some limit.
    - If items are spread out nicely, we get around $\Theta(1)$ average runtime.
- Values are seemingly placed into random bins in the hashing array.
    - This is due to the fact that the hashing function decides where the indices are.
    - The hashing function is by default based on the memory location of the object.


```java
Integer x = 5;
x.hashCode();
```




    5



- The goal of a hash function is to try and spread out item evenly.
    - Thus the memory address is effectively random, so items should be evenly distributed.
- However, sometimes we do not want to use the default hash function.
    - If we consider two objects to be equal based on their value and not by their reference, then it is possible that we cannot find a value in the hashmap as the memory address of our object does not match with the new identical object that we have.
    - We need to override the hashCode to hash a more intrinsic property of the object, something that all equal objects share. Such as the color of a colored number.
- If two objects are equal they should have the same hashCode so that the hashtable could always find it.
- If quals is overriden, the hashCode should also be overriden in a consistent manner.
    - If two objects are equals, they must have te same hashCode.
    - If we don't
        - Contains can't find objects.
        - Add results in duplicates.

# Immutable and Mutable Data Types
- Immutable data types is a type where an instance cannot change in any way after instantiation.
    - The Integer, String, and Date classes are immutable.
    - the `final` keyword help the compiler ensure immutability.
    - final is not sufficient nor necessary for a class to be immutable.
- Advantages of immutability: Less to think about, avoids bugs and makes debugging easier.
- Disadvantages of immutability: Must create a new object anytime anything changes, inefficient!

## Mutable HashSet Keys.
- What if we change a key in a hashset after it's been hashed?
- The moment we change an object's composition, it would have a different hashcode and might point to a different bin. So we'd ave an issue.
- Bottom line is to never mutate an object being used as a key, which could give us incorrect results and make the item get lost.
    - We are allowed to change things so long as it does not change the equals() value.
- In Java, `HashSet` looks effectively identical to `HashMap`, except the vlaues of `HashMap` are ignored in a HashSet.
